feat: metrics endpoint (for services and checks) (#519)
canonical/pebble: docs/how-to/run-services-reliably.md

      svc1-up: restart
```

## Access health metrics in OpenMetrics format

> If we run Pebble with the `--http` option, Pebble exposes the `/v1/metrics` endpoint over HTTP, providing metrics data in [OpenMetrics](https://github.com/prometheus/OpenMetrics) format. This endpoint is not open-access and requires HTTP basic authentication.

Reviewer: Could drop the mention of open-access if you like:
```suggestion
If we run Pebble with the `--http` option, Pebble exposes the `/v1/metrics` endpoint over HTTP, providing metrics data in [OpenMetrics](https://github.com/prometheus/OpenMetrics) format. This endpoint and requires HTTP basic authentication.
```

> To allow accessing the metrics endpoint with HTTP basic authentication, create a "basic" type identity and give it "metrics" access. Prepare this file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access the metrics endpoint with HTTP basic authentication, first create a "basic" type identity and give it "metrics" access. Prepare this file:
```

```yaml
# idents-add.yaml
identities:
  alice:
    access: metrics
      basic:
      # The password is hashed using sha512-crypt, as generated by "openssl passwd -6".
      password: <password hash>
```

Then run `pebble add-identities --from idents-add.yaml`. See [Identities](../reference/identities) and [How to manage identities](../how-to/manage-identities) for more information.

> To access the metrics endpoint, make sure we run Pebble with the `--http` option: `pebble run --http=:4000`, then we can get the metrics data with HTTP basic authentication:

Reviewer: I think we could shorten this to make the instructions more obvious:
```suggestion
To access the metrics endpoint, run `pebble run --http=:4000`, then use `curl` and specify the identity that we created:
```

```{terminal}
   :input: curl -u alice:<password> http://localhost:4000/v1/metrics
# HELP pebble_service_active Whether the service is currently active (1) or not (0)
# TYPE pebble_service_active gauge
pebble_service_active{service="svc1"} 1

# HELP pebble_service_start_count Number of times the service has started
# TYPE pebble_service_start_count counter
pebble_service_start_count{service="svc1"} 1

# HELP pebble_check_up Whether the health check is up (1) or not (0)
# TYPE pebble_check_up gauge
pebble_check_up{check="check1"} 1

# HELP pebble_check_success_count Number of times the check has succeeded
# TYPE pebble_check_success_count counter
pebble_check_success_count{check="check1"} 2

# HELP pebble_check_failure_count Number of times the check has failed
# TYPE pebble_check_failure_count counter
pebble_check_failure_count{check="check1"} 0

```

> To configure Prometheus to scrape a target protected by HTTP basic authentication, add an `http_config` section in the `scrape_config`. Read more [here in the official documentation](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#scrape_config).

Reviewer: Recommend adjusting the link:
```suggestion
To configure Prometheus to scrape a target protected by HTTP basic authentication, add an `http_config` section in the `scrape_config`. See the [Prometheus configuration documentation](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#scrape_config).
```
